README.md, before:

# Kokoro-Story

<div align="center">
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87938f62-567b-4041-af60-921340415ab8" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87938f62-567b-4041-af60-921340415ab8" alt="Gemini Preparation UI" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2cc08b24-32a7-4d1c-987a-f9136cee4f5d" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2cc08b24-32a7-4d1c-987a-f9136cee4f5d" alt="Gemini Sections Progress" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/610e1f26-dcb2-4e0d-9a4b-58d267467099" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/610e1f26-dcb2-4e0d-9a4b-58d267467099" alt="Speaker Detection" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/125181d0-38e4-4404-b3cf-7e25dc741f3b" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/125181d0-38e4-4404-b3cf-7e25dc741f3b" alt="Voice Assignment UI" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb75e709-440b-413a-bc0b-5af6587ef4cf" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb75e709-440b-413a-bc0b-5af6587ef4cf" alt="Job Queue Progress" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1213708b-874c-426e-8cb8-0a5472f8ec93" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1213708b-874c-426e-8cb8-0a5472f8ec93" alt="Library Downloads" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>
A web-based Text-to-Speech application powered by Kokoro-82M, supporting both local GPU inference and Replicate API for generating multi-voice audiobooks and stories.

## Features

- 🎭 **Multi-Voice Support**: Use Kokoro-82M voices for any number of characters in your story
- 🔊 **Speaker Tags & Auto Detection**: Automatically parse `[speaker1]...[/speaker1]` or `[alice]...[/alice]` tags, normalize casing, and keep a live registry of every speaker for quick voice assignment
- 🤖 **Gemini Pre-Processing**: Split long inputs into chapters/chunks, prepend your custom Gemini prompt, and stream each section through Google Gemini with a live progress indicator
- 🧠 **Speaker Memory Between Chunks**: Gemini requests carry forward the list of already-discovered speaker tags so later chunks keep the same character names (e.g., "Elora" stays "Elora" instead of becoming "Commander Elora")
- 🖥️ **Local GPU Processing**: Run Kokoro-82M locally on your NVIDIA GPU for privacy and speed
- ☁️ **Cloud API Option**: Use Replicate API when you don’t have local GPU resources
- 📝 **Smart Text Chunking**: Automatically splits long texts into manageable chunks
- 🎵 **Seamless Audio Merging**: Merges chunks into a single file with configurable crossfade
- 📥 **Job Queue**: Submit multiple jobs, track status, cancel, and download results
- 📊 **Job Queue Tab**: Dedicated UI to monitor all jobs in real time
- 📚 **Audio Library**: Browsable list of all completed outputs with inline players and delete/clear
- �️ **Available Voices & Previews**: Browse all Kokoro voices, generate preview samples, and click to listen
- 🔁 **Sample Generation**: Generate or regenerate missing previews with a single button
- 🎛️ **Configurable Settings**: Control mode (local/Replicate), speed, chunk size, output format, crossfade
- ⚙️ **Dynamic Gemini Controls**: Save your Gemini API key, fetch the latest available Gemini models on demand, and reuse your preferred model across sessions
- 🌐 **Web Interface**: Modern single-page UI built with Flask and vanilla JS

## Available Voices

Kokoro-Story exposes the full Kokoro-82M voice set, grouped by language.

### American English 🇺🇸 (lang_code `a`)
- Female: `af_alloy`, `af_aoede`, `af_bella`, `af_heart`, `af_jessica`, `af_kore`, `af_nicole`, `af_nova`, `af_river`, `af_sarah`, `af_sky`
- Male: `am_adam`, `am_echo`, `am_eric`, `am_fenrir`, `am_liam`, `am_michael`, `am_onyx`, `am_puck`, `am_santa`

### British English 🇬🇧 (lang_code `b`)
- Female: `bf_alice`, `bf_emma`, `bf_isabella`, `bf_lily`
- Male: `bm_daniel`, `bm_fable`, `bm_george`, `bm_lewis`

### Spanish 🇪🇸 (lang_code `e`)
- `ef_dora`, `em_alex`, `em_santa`

### French 🇫🇷 (lang_code `f`)
- `ff_siwis`

### Hindi 🇮🇳 (lang_code `h`)
- `hf_alpha`, `hf_beta`, `hm_omega`

### Japanese 🇯🇵 (lang_code `j`)
- `jf_alpha`, `jf_gongitsune`, `jf_nezumi`, `jf_tebukuro`, `jm_kumo`

### Mandarin Chinese 🇨🇳 (lang_code `z`)
- `zf_xiaobei`, `zf_xiaoni`, `zf_xiaoxiao`, `zf_xiaoyi`

### Brazilian Portuguese 🇧🇷 (lang_code `p`)
- `pf_dora`, `pm_alex`, `pm_santa`

All of these voices are browsable in the **Available Voices** tab, where you can generate and play preview samples.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9 or higher
- NVIDIA GPU with CUDA support (optional, for local GPU inference)
- Internet connection (for downloading dependencies)

### Automatic Installation (Recommended)

1. **Clone or download the repository**
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd Kokoro-Story
```

2. **Run the setup script**
```bash
setup.bat
```

The setup script will automatically:
- ✅ Detect your Python version
- ✅ Create a Python virtual environment
- ✅ Detect your NVIDIA GPU and CUDA version
- ✅ Install PyTorch with appropriate CUDA support (or CPU-only if no GPU)
- ✅ Download and install espeak-ng automatically
- ✅ Install all other required dependencies
- ✅ Verify the installation

**Supported CUDA Versions:**
- CUDA 12.9, 12.8, 12.6, 12.4, 12.1
- CUDA 11.8
- CPU-only (automatic fallback if no GPU detected)

3. **Start the application**
```bash
run.bat
```

4. **Open your browser**
```
http://localhost:5000
```

### Manual Installation

If you prefer to install manually or the automatic setup fails:

1. **Install espeak-ng**
   - Download from [espeak-ng releases](https://github.com/espeak-ng/espeak-ng/releases)
   - Install the `espeak-ng-X64.msi` file for Windows

2. **Create virtual environment**
```bash
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. **Install PyTorch with CUDA support**
```bash
# For CUDA 12.1 (most common)
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu121

# For CPU only
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
```

4. **Install other dependencies**
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

5. **Run the application**
```bash
python app.py
```

## Usage

### Local GPU Mode

1. Open your browser to `http://localhost:5000`
2. In **Settings**, select **Local GPU** as the processing mode
3. Paste your text with or without speaker tags
4. In the **Generate** tab, select a **Default Voice** (used for plain text / unassigned speakers)
5. If you use speaker tags, Kokoro-Story automatically analyzes the text and lets you assign voices per speaker
6. Click **Generate Audio**
7. The job is added to the **Job Queue**, processed in the background, and the result appears in both:
   - **Job Queue** tab (with status and player)
   - **Library** tab (all past generations)
   - **Latest Audio** section on the **Generate** tab (most recent completed job)

**Note:** Local GPU mode runs entirely on your machine and never uses the Replicate API, ensuring complete privacy and no API costs.

### Replicate API Mode

1. Get your API key from [Replicate](https://replicate.com)
2. In Settings, select "Replicate API" and enter your API key
3. Follow the same steps as Local GPU mode

### Speaker Tag Format

You can use either numbered speakers or named speakers:

**Numbered Format:**
```
[speaker1]Hello, my name is Alice.[/speaker1]
[speaker2]Nice to meet you, Alice! I'm Bob.[/speaker2]
[speaker1]It's great to meet you too![/speaker1]
```

**Named Format:**
```
[narrator]Once upon a time, in a land far away...[/narrator]
[alice]Hello, my name is Alice.[/alice]
[bob]Nice to meet you, Alice! I'm Bob.[/bob]
[narrator]And so their adventure began.[/narrator]
```

You can use any alphanumeric name (letters, numbers, underscores). The system will automatically detect all unique speakers and let you assign voices to each one.

### Gemini Pre-Processing Workflow

Need to tidy a manuscript or add consistent speaker tags before running TTS? Use the **Prep Text with Gemini** button:

1. Enter your Gemini API key and model in **Settings**, then click **Fetch Available Models** if you want to load the latest list directly from Google.
2. Paste your story in the **Generate** tab and choose whether to prioritize chapter-based splitting or balanced chunks.
3. Click **Prep Text with Gemini**. The app will:
   - Build sections (chapters or chunks) locally.
   - Show a real-time progress bar (e.g., “Processing section 3 of 7”).
   - Send each section to Gemini along with your configured prompt and the running list of known speaker tags so names stay consistent.
4. When Gemini finishes, the cleaned/expanded narrative replaces the input field. Chapter headings stay inside the narrator tags so audio splitting still works.
5. Re-run **Analyze Text** if needed and assign voices—your previous voice selections are preserved unless the text actually changes.

Because the speaker list is tracked across sections, characters that appear later continue to use the same tag, which keeps the voice assignment UI tidy and prevents duplicate dropdowns.

### Plain Text Mode

If no speaker tags are found, the entire text will be processed with a single voice.

### Job Queue & Library

- **Job Queue** tab shows all jobs, their status (`queued`, `processing`, `completed`, `failed`, `cancelled`), and provides per-job controls.
- **Library** tab lists all completed outputs (sorted newest first) with:
  - Inline audio players
  - Download links
  - Delete and “Clear All” controls

### Available Voices & Previews

- **Available Voices** tab lists all Kokoro-82M voices grouped by language.
- You can:
  - Generate preview samples for all voices
  - Regenerate (overwrite) samples if you change text or update voices
  - Click any voice to play its preview sample

## Configuration

Settings are stored in `config.json`:

```json
{
  "mode": "local",
  "replicate_api_key": "",
  "chunk_size": 500,
  "sample_rate": 24000,
  "speed": 1.0,
  "output_format": "mp3",
  "crossfade_duration": 0.1
}
```

## Project Structure

```
Kokoro-Story/
├── app.py                 # Flask web server
├── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├── setup.bat             # Windows setup script
├── run.bat               # Windows run script
├── config.json           # Configuration file
├── src/
│   ├── tts_engine.py     # Local TTS processing
│   ├── replicate_api.py  # Replicate API integration
│   ├── text_processor.py # Text chunking and parsing
│   ├── audio_merger.py   # Audio file merging
│   ├── voice_manager.py  # Voice configuration and preview sample metadata
│   └── voice_sample_generator.py # Batch generation of voice preview samples
├── static/
│   ├── css/
│   │   └── style.css
│   ├── js/
│   │   ├── main.js
│   │   ├── queue.js
│   │   ├── library.js
│   │   ├── voice-manager.js
│   │   └── settings.js
│   ├── audio/            # Generated audio files (per-job subdirectories)
│   └── samples/          # Voice preview samples and manifest.json
└── templates/
    └── index.html        # Web interface
```

## API Endpoints

- `GET /` - Main web interface
- `GET /api/health` - Health check (mode, Kokoro availability, CUDA status)
- `GET /api/voices` - Get available voices and preview sample status
- `POST /api/voices/samples` - Generate or regenerate voice preview samples
- `GET /api/settings` - Get current settings
- `POST /api/settings` - Update settings
- `POST /api/analyze` - Analyze text and return statistics/speakers
- `POST /api/gemini/sections` - Preview the sections (chapters/chunks) Gemini will process for a given input
- `POST /api/gemini/process-section` - Send a single section to Gemini (called in sequence by the frontend for live progress updates)
- `POST /api/gemini/process` - Process the entire text through Gemini in one backend call (used for scripted workflows)
- `POST /api/gemini/models` - Fetch available Gemini models after providing an API key
- `POST /api/generate` - Queue a new audio generation job
- `GET /api/status/<job_id>` - Check status of a specific job
- `POST /api/cancel/<job_id>` - Cancel a queued or running job
- `GET /api/queue` - Get all jobs, their status, and current queue size
- `GET /api/download/<job_id>` - Download generated audio file
- `GET /api/library` - List all completed audio files
- `DELETE /api/library/<job_id>` - Delete a specific library item
- `POST /api/library/clear` - Delete all library items

## Performance

### Local GPU (NVIDIA RTX 3090)
- ~2 seconds per chunk (500 words)
- No API costs
- Full privacy

### Replicate API
- ~2-3 seconds per chunk (varies by input)
- Cost varies by usage
- No GPU required
- Model: [jaaari/kokoro-82m](https://replicate.com/jaaari/kokoro-82m)
- Supports automatic text splitting for long-form content
- Over 52M runs - highly reliable

## Troubleshooting

### espeak-ng not found
Make sure espeak-ng is installed and in your PATH.

### CUDA out of memory
Reduce chunk_size in settings or use Replicate API mode.

### Audio quality issues
Adjust the speed parameter (0.5 - 2.0) in settings.

## License

Apache 2.0 - Same as Kokoro-82M

## Credits

- [Kokoro-82M](https://huggingface.co/hexgrad/Kokoro-82M) by hexgrad
- [StyleTTS2](https://github.com/yl4579/StyleTTS2) by yl4579
- [Replicate](https://replicate.com) for cloud API

## Support

For issues and questions, please open an issue on GitHub.

Commit message:

Integration of voice mixing
Added full custom voice blending support to Kokoro-Story: backend APIs now persist blend definitions and the TTS engine dynamically mixes component embeddings, while the “Available Voices” tab exposes a Custom Voice Blends panel with CRUD tooling and selectors automatically list the new custom_* voices.

README.md, after:

# Kokoro-Story

A web-based Text-to-Speech application powered by Kokoro-82M, supporting both local GPU inference and Replicate API for generating multi-voice audiobooks and stories.

<div align="center">
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87938f62-567b-4041-af60-921340415ab8" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87938f62-567b-4041-af60-921340415ab8" alt="Gemini Preparation UI" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2cc08b24-32a7-4d1c-987a-f9136cee4f5d" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2cc08b24-32a7-4d1c-987a-f9136cee4f5d" alt="Gemini Sections Progress" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/610e1f26-dcb2-4e0d-9a4b-58d267467099" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/610e1f26-dcb2-4e0d-9a4b-58d267467099" alt="Speaker Detection" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/125181d0-38e4-4404-b3cf-7e25dc741f3b" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/125181d0-38e4-4404-b3cf-7e25dc741f3b" alt="Voice Assignment UI" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb75e709-440b-413a-bc0b-5af6587ef4cf" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fb75e709-440b-413a-bc0b-5af6587ef4cf" alt="Job Queue Progress" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
      <td>
        <a href="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1213708b-874c-426e-8cb8-0a5472f8ec93" target="_blank">
          <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1213708b-874c-426e-8cb8-0a5472f8ec93" alt="Library Downloads" width="230" />
        </a>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </table>
</div>

## Features

- 🎭 **Multi-Voice Support**: Use Kokoro-82M voices for any number of characters in your story
- 🧪 **Custom Voice Blending**: Mix any combination of Kokoro voices with weighted ratios to create reusable “custom_*” voice codes without touching the command line
- 🔊 **Speaker Tags & Auto Detection**: Automatically parse `[speaker1]...[/speaker1]` or `[alice]...[/alice]` tags, normalize casing, and keep a live registry of every speaker for quick voice assignment
- 🤖 **Gemini Pre-Processing**: Split long inputs into chapters/chunks, prepend your custom Gemini prompt, and stream each section through Google Gemini with a live progress indicator
- 🧠 **Speaker Memory Between Chunks**: Gemini requests carry forward the list of already-discovered speaker tags so later chunks keep the same character names (e.g., "Elora" stays "Elora" instead of becoming "Commander Elora")
- 🖥️ **Local GPU Processing**: Run Kokoro-82M locally on your NVIDIA GPU for privacy and speed
- ☁️ **Cloud API Option**: Use Replicate API when you don’t have local GPU resources
- 📝 **Smart Text Chunking**: Automatically splits long texts into manageable chunks
- 🎵 **Seamless Audio Merging**: Merges chunks into a single file with configurable crossfade
- 📥 **Job Queue**: Submit multiple jobs, track status, cancel, and download results
- 📊 **Job Queue Tab**: Dedicated UI to monitor all jobs in real time
- 📚 **Audio Library**: Browsable list of all completed outputs with inline players and delete/clear
- 🅰️ **Available Voices & Previews**: Browse all Kokoro voices, generate preview samples, and click to listen
- � **Chapter Collections + Full Audiobook**: Toggle per-chapter outputs and optionally create a single combined audiobook alongside the chapter files
- �🔁 **Sample Generation**: Generate or regenerate missing previews with a single button
- 🎛️ **Configurable Settings**: Control mode (local/Replicate), speed, chunk size, output format, crossfade
- ⚙️ **Dynamic Gemini Controls**: Save your Gemini API key, fetch the latest available Gemini models on demand, and reuse your preferred model across sessions
- 🌐 **Web Interface**: Modern single-page UI built with Flask and vanilla JS

## Available Voices

Kokoro-Story exposes the full Kokoro-82M voice set, grouped by language.

### American English 🇺🇸 (lang_code `a`)
- Female: `af_alloy`, `af_aoede`, `af_bella`, `af_heart`, `af_jessica`, `af_kore`, `af_nicole`, `af_nova`, `af_river`, `af_sarah`, `af_sky`
- Male: `am_adam`, `am_echo`, `am_eric`, `am_fenrir`, `am_liam`, `am_michael`, `am_onyx`, `am_puck`, `am_santa`

### British English 🇬🇧 (lang_code `b`)
- Female: `bf_alice`, `bf_emma`, `bf_isabella`, `bf_lily`
- Male: `bm_daniel`, `bm_fable`, `bm_george`, `bm_lewis`

### Spanish 🇪🇸 (lang_code `e`)
- `ef_dora`, `em_alex`, `em_santa`

### French 🇫🇷 (lang_code `f`)
- `ff_siwis`

### Hindi 🇮🇳 (lang_code `h`)
- `hf_alpha`, `hf_beta`, `hm_omega`

### Japanese 🇯🇵 (lang_code `j`)
- `jf_alpha`, `jf_gongitsune`, `jf_nezumi`, `jf_tebukuro`, `jm_kumo`

### Mandarin Chinese 🇨🇳 (lang_code `z`)
- `zf_xiaobei`, `zf_xiaoni`, `zf_xiaoxiao`, `zf_xiaoyi`

### Brazilian Portuguese 🇧🇷 (lang_code `p`)
- `pf_dora`, `pm_alex`, `pm_santa`

All of these voices are browsable in the **Available Voices** tab, where you can generate and play preview samples.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9 or higher
- NVIDIA GPU with CUDA support (optional, for local GPU inference)
- Internet connection (for downloading dependencies)

### Automatic Installation (Recommended)

1. **Clone or download the repository**
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd Kokoro-Story
```

2. **Run the setup script**
```bash
setup.bat
```

The setup script will automatically:
- ✅ Detect your Python version
- ✅ Create a Python virtual environment
- ✅ Detect your NVIDIA GPU and CUDA version
- ✅ Install PyTorch with appropriate CUDA support (or CPU-only if no GPU)
- ✅ Download and install espeak-ng automatically
- ✅ Install all other required dependencies
- ✅ Verify the installation

**Supported CUDA Versions:**
- CUDA 12.9, 12.8, 12.6, 12.4, 12.1
- CUDA 11.8
- CPU-only (automatic fallback if no GPU detected)

3. **Start the application**
```bash
run.bat
```

4. **Open your browser**
```
http://localhost:5000
```

### Manual Installation

If you prefer to install manually or the automatic setup fails:

1. **Install espeak-ng**
   - Download from [espeak-ng releases](https://github.com/espeak-ng/espeak-ng/releases)
   - Install the `espeak-ng-X64.msi` file for Windows

2. **Create virtual environment**
```bash
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. **Install PyTorch with CUDA support**
```bash
# For CUDA 12.1 (most common)
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu121

# For CPU only
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu
```

4. **Install other dependencies**
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

5. **Run the application**
```bash
python app.py
```

## Usage

### Local GPU Mode

1. Open your browser to `http://localhost:5000`
2. In **Settings**, select **Local GPU** as the processing mode
3. Paste your text with or without speaker tags
4. In the **Generate** tab, select a **Default Voice** (used for plain text / unassigned speakers)
5. If you use speaker tags, Kokoro-Story automatically analyzes the text and lets you assign voices per speaker
6. Click **Generate Audio**
7. The job is added to the **Job Queue**, processed in the background, and the result appears in both:
   - **Job Queue** tab (with status and player)
   - **Library** tab (all past generations)
   - **Latest Audio** section on the **Generate** tab (most recent completed job)
8. When "Generate separate audio files for each chapter" is on, you can also enable "Also create a single full-length audiobook" so the Library presents both individual chapters and a combined ZIP/full download.

**Note:** Local GPU mode runs entirely on your machine and never uses the Replicate API, ensuring complete privacy and no API costs.

### Replicate API Mode

1. Get your API key from [Replicate](https://replicate.com)
2. In Settings, select "Replicate API" and enter your API key
3. Follow the same steps as Local GPU mode

### Speaker Tag Format

You can use either numbered speakers or named speakers:

**Numbered Format:**
```
[speaker1]Hello, my name is Alice.[/speaker1]
[speaker2]Nice to meet you, Alice! I'm Bob.[/speaker2]
[speaker1]It's great to meet you too![/speaker1]
```

**Named Format:**
```
[narrator]Once upon a time, in a land far away...[/narrator]
[alice]Hello, my name is Alice.[/alice]
[bob]Nice to meet you, Alice! I'm Bob.[/bob]
[narrator]And so their adventure began.[/narrator]
```

You can use any alphanumeric name (letters, numbers, underscores). The system will automatically detect all unique speakers and let you assign voices to each one.

### Gemini Pre-Processing Workflow

Need to tidy a manuscript or add consistent speaker tags before running TTS? Use the **Prep Text with Gemini** button:

1. Enter your Gemini API key and model in **Settings**, then click **Fetch Available Models** if you want to load the latest list directly from Google.
2. Paste your story in the **Generate** tab and choose whether to prioritize chapter-based splitting or balanced chunks.
3. Click **Prep Text with Gemini**. The app will:
   - Build sections (chapters or chunks) locally.
   - Show a real-time progress bar (e.g., “Processing section 3 of 7”).
   - Send each section to Gemini along with your configured prompt and the running list of known speaker tags so names stay consistent.
4. When Gemini finishes, the cleaned/expanded narrative replaces the input field. Chapter headings stay inside the narrator tags so audio splitting still works.
5. Re-run **Analyze Text** if needed and assign voices—your previous voice selections are preserved unless the text actually changes.

Because the speaker list is tracked across sections, characters that appear later continue to use the same tag, which keeps the voice assignment UI tidy and prevents duplicate dropdowns.

### Plain Text Mode

If no speaker tags are found, the entire text will be processed with a single voice.

### Job Queue & Library

- **Job Queue** tab shows all jobs, their status (`queued`, `processing`, `completed`, `failed`, `cancelled`), and provides per-job controls.
- **Library** tab lists all completed outputs (sorted newest first) with:
  - Inline audio players
  - Download links
  - Delete and “Clear All” controls

### Available Voices & Previews

- **Available Voices** tab lists all Kokoro-82M voices grouped by language.
- You can:
  - Generate preview samples for all voices
  - Regenerate (overwrite) samples if you change text or update voices
  - Click any voice to play its preview sample

### Custom Voice Blends

- Open the **Custom Voice Blends** panel inside the **Available Voices** tab to create bespoke voices.
- Click **New Custom Voice** (or Edit on any card) to open the modal where you can:
  - Name the blend and choose its language group (lang_code)
  - Add one or more component voices and set their mix weights (e.g., 0.5 narrator + 0.5 af_heart)
  - Optionally add notes for future reference
- Saved blends appear in the grid with metadata (code, language, updated time) and can be edited or deleted at any time.
- All custom voices automatically show up in:
  - Default voice dropdowns
  - Per-speaker assignment selects (grouped by language under “Custom Blends” optgroups)
  - `/api/voices` responses (`custom_voices` arrays per language) so automation scripts can use them.
- When the generator encounters a `custom_*` voice, the backend blends the component embeddings on the fly and caches the tensor for fast reuse.

> Tip: The API exposes the full CRUD workflow under `/api/custom-voices`, so you can script voice creation or keep predefined blends in source control.

## Configuration

Settings are stored in `config.json`:

```json
{
  "mode": "local",
  "replicate_api_key": "",
  "chunk_size": 500,
  "sample_rate": 24000,
  "speed": 1.0,
  "output_format": "mp3",
  "crossfade_duration": 0.1
}
```

## Project Structure

```
Kokoro-Story/
├── app.py                 # Flask web server
├── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├── setup.bat             # Windows setup script
├── run.bat               # Windows run script
├── config.json           # Configuration file
├── src/
│   ├── tts_engine.py     # Local TTS processing
│   ├── replicate_api.py  # Replicate API integration
│   ├── text_processor.py # Text chunking and parsing
│   ├── audio_merger.py   # Audio file merging
│   ├── voice_manager.py  # Voice configuration and preview sample metadata
│   └── voice_sample_generator.py # Batch generation of voice preview samples
├── static/
│   ├── css/
│   │   └── style.css
│   ├── js/
│   │   ├── main.js
│   │   ├── queue.js
│   │   ├── library.js
│   │   ├── voice-manager.js
│   │   └── settings.js
│   ├── audio/            # Generated audio files (per-job subdirectories)
│   └── samples/          # Voice preview samples and manifest.json
└── templates/
    └── index.html        # Web interface
```

## API Endpoints

- `GET /` - Main web interface
- `GET /api/health` - Health check (mode, Kokoro availability, CUDA status)
- `GET /api/voices` - Get available voices and preview sample status
- `POST /api/voices/samples` - Generate or regenerate voice preview samples
- `GET /api/settings` - Get current settings
- `POST /api/settings` - Update settings
- `POST /api/analyze` - Analyze text and return statistics/speakers
- `POST /api/gemini/sections` - Preview the sections (chapters/chunks) Gemini will process for a given input
- `POST /api/gemini/process-section` - Send a single section to Gemini (called in sequence by the frontend for live progress updates)
- `POST /api/gemini/process` - Process the entire text through Gemini in one backend call (used for scripted workflows)
- `POST /api/gemini/models` - Fetch available Gemini models after providing an API key
- `POST /api/generate` - Queue a new audio generation job
- `GET /api/status/<job_id>` - Check status of a specific job
- `POST /api/cancel/<job_id>` - Cancel a queued or running job
- `GET /api/queue` - Get all jobs, their status, and current queue size
- `GET /api/download/<job_id>` - Download generated audio file
- `GET /api/library` - List all completed audio files
- `DELETE /api/library/<job_id>` - Delete a specific library item
- `POST /api/library/clear` - Delete all library items
- `GET /api/custom-voices` - List custom voice blends (includes normalized metadata and component weights)
- `POST /api/custom-voices` - Create a new custom voice blend
- `GET /api/custom-voices/<voice_id>` - Retrieve a specific custom voice (ID or `custom_` code)
- `PUT /api/custom-voices/<voice_id>` - Update an existing custom voice blend
- `DELETE /api/custom-voices/<voice_id>` - Delete a custom voice and invalidate cached tensors

## Performance

### Local GPU (NVIDIA RTX 3090)
- ~2 seconds per chunk (500 words)
- No API costs
- Full privacy

### Replicate API
- ~2-3 seconds per chunk (varies by input)
- Cost varies by usage
- No GPU required
- Model: [jaaari/kokoro-82m](https://replicate.com/jaaari/kokoro-82m)
- Supports automatic text splitting for long-form content
- Over 52M runs - highly reliable

## Troubleshooting

### espeak-ng not found
Make sure espeak-ng is installed and in your PATH.

### CUDA out of memory
Reduce chunk_size in settings or use Replicate API mode.

### Audio quality issues
Adjust the speed parameter (0.5 - 2.0) in settings.

## License

Apache 2.0 - Same as Kokoro-82M

## Credits

- [Kokoro-82M](https://huggingface.co/hexgrad/Kokoro-82M) by hexgrad
- [StyleTTS2](https://github.com/yl4579/StyleTTS2) by yl4579
- [Replicate](https://replicate.com) for cloud API

## Support

For issues and questions, please open an issue on GitHub.
